This tutorial we will talk about the where clause.
Here you can see in front of you a select from statement which is selecting everything all the columns
from the order breakdown table.
And here at the bottom you can see the result.
There is a total of eight thousand and forty seven rows in this table.
Now let's say we want to select a subset of these rows.
We don't want everything we only want the rows that have furniture in the category column what are we
going to do is we going to add a WHERE clause to the select statement.
All we have to do is type in where and here we're going to specify a column named category.
I recommend putting square brackets around your column names because if your column name happens to
have the same name as a keyword or a reserved word in SU then you won't be able to use it because square
brackets will give you an example if you type in state the word state then you can see this highlighting
in blue.
So if your column is called State then the only way to use it is actually put square brackets around
it.
So here we've got where category and we want to specify the kind of rules so we will use a simple equal
sign here and then we will specify the kind of you we're interested in which is furniture.
And notice how I put the single quotation marks around the word furniture because all strings and ask
you will need to have single quotations around them.
That's how you specify strings in this school.
So now for on this query you will see that only the rows where categories furniture have been selected
.
And there's a total of one thousand two hundred and thirty eight of these rows.
That's a basic use case for the where clause.
But now let's see what happens if we want to add on more conditions that for instance here we can see
that there's lots of different types of sales.
Let's say that we want only the cells that were over $100.
So naturally you would type in and and is your logical operator which you can use with where just like
or.
So in this case and sales as put square brackets around it I will show you a method that won't work
in this scenario.
And I'll explain why so and sales is over 100.
That is what you would normally do.
But in this case if you execute you will see that this brings an error.
And the reason for that is because the way we uploaded all of this data is where uploaded as text.
So all our data is currently as is recognized or is stored as a string.
So sales.
Now if we go back if we highlight this we can actually highlight elements that we want to execute.
So if you highlight that and execute it we'll ignore this last bit will only execute the highlighted
part.
So if we execute this part then you'll see that even though it looks like a number.
In reality it's been stored as a text and therefore the skill count can compare your sales to a number
.
So there is a solution to that which is a temporary solution for us.
Are we going to convert sales into a number in this in this select statement while it's running and
I'll show you how to do that.
So before sales just type and convert and then your target type for us will be float which is a skill
at a data type with decimal points and then just close the brackets off sales and click execute now
.
So now you can see that there's even less rose only 1022 rose and that's because we are only seeing
rows where the sales are over 100.
Once again this is a quick solution.
In reality your doors should be stored properly so it should be.
Sales should be obviously already in the float type.
But we haven't gotten to that yet.
We will talk about converting daughter further down in this section of the course.
So that's how you use a WHERE clause with the and logical operators so let's do one more now.
What if we want to add an OR operator and just will follow for any reason.
Let's say we want all of the rows that are in the technology category and we don't really mind what
level of sales they have.
So in that case these two will work together.
Category furniture over 100 or it has to be in technology.
So that way we what we're going to do is we're going to put brackets around these like that and you
can see scale highlights of breakfast food to make it visually easy to understand what's going on.
And here we will add another clause or category
is in this case it's technology.
So now you're on that you will see that everything from furniture which is above $100 has been selected
and plus everything from technology regardless of the sales as we like to you can see here $88 $86.
So visually it might be better if you structure it this way and you are free to do this as well because
as Phil doesn't doesn't mind how you structure your queries in terms of how they're written and where
you put the spaces and tabs and so on.
So basically you're checking either this clause should be correct or this clause and returning all the
rows and that is how you use your where clause in a old